# WebAutomationTest

## Overview

This project is a web automation testing framework built using `pytest`. It is designed to automate and validate the functionality of web applications, ensuring they meet the required quality standards. The framework leverages the `pytest` testing framework, allowing for robust and scalable test execution with detailed reports.

## Project Structure

```
WebAutomationTest/
│── pages/                        # Page object models
├── reports/                      # Reports directory
│   ├── allure-results/           # Allure report results
│   └── report_<timestamp>.html   # HTML report generated by pytest
├── tests/                        # Test cases
│── utilities/                    # Utility functions and helpers
├── test_log.log                  # Log file for test runs
│── conftest.py                   # Configuration and fixtures
├── requirements.txt              # Python dependencies
└── README.md                     # Project documentation
```

## Installation

To get started with the project, clone the repository and install the required dependencies:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Manikanta18/WebAutomationTest.git
cd WebAutomationTest
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage

### Running Tests

To run the tests, execute the below command:

```bash
pytest
```

This will run all the tests and generate an HTML report in the `reports/` directory. A new log file named `test_log.log` will be created in the root directory for each test run.

### Generating a New Log File for Each Test Run

The framework is configured to create a new log file named `test_log.log` in the root directory for each test run. This log file captures the test execution details.

### Test Reports

- HTML reports are generated after each test run with the current stamp and stored in the `reports/` folder. This folder also includes `allure-results` for generating Allure reports.
- To view the detailed test execution report, open `report_<latest_timestamp>.html` in the `reports/` folder.

- Use the Allure command to generate the report from the results directory.
  ```bash
  allure serve reports/allure-results
  ```

**Note:** The `reports/` folder, including `allure-results`, is used to store test results and is not pushed to GitHub as it is excluded in the `.gitignore` file.

## Page Object Model (POM)

The framework follows the Page Object Model design pattern, where page objects are created in the `pages/` directory. This approach promotes code reusability and maintainability.

## Dependencies

The framework requires the following Python packages:

- `pytest`
- `selenium`
- `pytest-html`
- `allure-pytest` (for Allure reporting)
- Any other dependencies listed in `requirements.txt`
